Ingenuity brought them to an oak sapling.

(For breakfast a stew of hominy and molasses, and a gooseberry cobbler.)

The moon found them slaughtering a muskrat
pouring scalding water through an incision
in the intestinal membrane.

Where before a kindly constellation
an abandoned planet with miscellany habits
now nothing but a carcass—arteries haphazardly parboiled.

(For lunch a bushel of fermented muscadine grapes and pickled okra.)

Nearby insects wore a veil of skin and ashes, the
unwanted entrails and fibers left there
like an abandoned house. Perhaps
the animal should have migrated to another planet, one
where the atmosphere helps one believe
with conviction in mold, and in sage, and in death. Not this one
where signs make everything scientific seem unfruitful, where
reason and evidence, and funerals and dirt could mean
nothing to them.

(For dinner a chopped cabbage, a silk corn in a crock, and a flat flint rock.)

Even the tonsils they took. Made a mystery moonshine
milk splattering, swallowed mustard and relish
coals sprinkled with mushy sulfur
blinking.

--

Arousing the discovery of vanity, he desires everybody, enhancing his relationship frustration, his worry about toxic affection. The transition is vulnerability and softness, submission to the eroticization of effeminate mannerisms, a swallowing of the generosity of strangers. To speak of envy of the artifact of hormones, or to fixate on surgeries would be a perverse objectification. He will miss the lesbian propositioning, the cisgender avoidance, the occassional pleasurable disgust at physiology. He’s not there for the catcalling or the delighting in pornographic gendered passivity. His lubrication is for the erotic drive of intersex piloerection, masturbating to the tension of connection, undressing while thinking of earlobe stimulation, osmolality, and touch.

--

Earthquakes are nothing for sugarcane ghosts.
They sit still through them and write conjurations.
Churches profit, not demons.
The cryptography of the codex is a holy harm.
Harvesting flowers is still plausible.
They planted riddles like seeds.
Compassion crystal stone, don’t emigrate.
A purificatory bath will serve as explanation.
Enviable messages and visions are no longer just for rulers.
The spirits kept in bottles are ready for resurrection.
Copper children are casting dreams.

divination demon bowl necromancy talismans manuscript planetary herbs geomantic magical recipes candle ecclesiastical invisibility definitions unborn virtue ritual evocation pursuit metals restraining honor spells healing power incantation invocation language transliterations occult knives sorcerer phonology sulfur Jupiter puzzle confession cloak etymology ring art vow demands money obedience monstrous perfume frankincense names queen seal urine egg fingernail bottom mirror amulet favors enemies thursday merchandise drunkards beasts socializing sowing animals pure brain quietness apprentice races cloud treasure pentagram wine evil eye noon death oath orbit

--

There’s a new theory of paranoia: To please is to seduce a neurosis. It isn’t so much permanent ontology as just an incubator for existential thoughts on the sociocultural structure of consciousness. Something to mitigate the desires of the quintessentially moody kernel of truth we loan as performance. It reads like a debate from the sixties—commitment to the ludicrous paradox of humor, to the guts viciously pressured by the ink of the tattoo, to the castration anxiety and its redemption by a dominatrix. It goes against all sublimated chauvinistic grumbling (“Biological extinction will unleash a garish psychic operation!” “Homemaking isn’t but a selfish tick!”).

--

The architecture of the elastic cosmos displays aesthetic folding. If it was a utilitarian cardboard fabrication, the colors gravity dilapidated glittering hypothesis electromagnetic field expansion universe waves hallucination physics relativity ideas microcosm games toys books autonomous creativity spherical purple toucan ladder restless geometric examples simple brutalist marble allegorical inexpensive models iterations plastics auction porcelain kinetic experiments playful motifs shapes precise spaces couple harmonious paint history daylight foliage line inspiration collective warm senses environment stability world particles drawings telescopes endless uniformity made of atoms like bricks
